Editorial review: Improve docs for Wasm mutable globals (#43843)
mdn/content: files/en-us/webassembly/reference/definitions/global/index.md

---
title: "global: Wasm definition"
short-title: global
slug: WebAssembly/Reference/Definitions/global
page-type: webassembly-instruction
sidebar: webassemblysidebar
---

The **`global`** definition declares a new global variable.

{{InteractiveExample("Wat Demo: global", "tabbed-taller")}}

```wat interactive-example
(module
  (import "console" "log" (func $log (param i32)))

  ;; Import a global variable from js

>   (global $from_js (import "env" "from_js") i32)

Reviewer: I forgot you could even do this import syntax in the text format, with the import inside the definition instead of the definition inside the import. 

Nit: it's a little strange to have the import syntax this way when immediately above is a function imported the "normal" way.

Author: Good point, this is a little weird and inconsistent. I've updated the live example in my next commit so that both imports use the first form.

  ;; Create a global variable
  (global $from_wasm (mut i32) (i32.const 10))

  (func $main
    ;; Set $from_wasm to a different value
    i32.const 20
    global.set $from_wasm

    ;; Load both global variables onto the stack
    global.get $from_js
    global.get $from_wasm

    i32.add ;; Add up both globals
    call $log ;; Log the result
  )
  (start $main)
)
```

```js interactive-example
const url = "{%wasm-url%}";
const from_js = new WebAssembly.Global({ value: "i32", mutable: false }, 5);
await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(fetch(url), {
  console,
  env: { from_js },
});
```

## Syntax

```plain
global identifier type initial_value
```

- `global`

>   - : The `global` instruction type. Must always be included first.

Reviewer: This is a definition, not an instruction.

Author: Good catch, updated. This was originally included as an instruction page, but I moved it to definitions.

- `identifier` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An identifying name for the global. This must begin with a `$` symbol, for example `$my_global`.
- `type`

>   - : The type of global to create. This can consist of one or two separate values:

Reviewer: I'm not really sure what "one or two separate values" means. A global type is always a value type + an optional `(mut ...)`. You can't have `mut` without a value type, which is what this phrasing sort of implies to me.

Author: Would it help if I replaced "separate values" with "items"? I can see how "separate values" is confusing, but I'm just trying to state that it can be a data type (one item) or `mut` plus a data type (two items).

Reviewer: Good enough, I think.

    - `mut` {{optional_inline}}
      - : The `mut` flag. If included, the global is mutable — it can be set to a different value after initialization via the [`global.set`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.set) instruction.
    - `data_type`
      - : The data type of the global. This can be one of the following:
        - `i32`
        - `i64`
        - `f32`
        - `f64`
        - [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128)
        - [`funcref`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/funcref)

>         - [`externref`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/externref)

Reviewer: I'm not sure what our policy is right now for documenting reference types, but as of Wasm 3.0, value types (and therefore globals) can store the full suite of reference types, including GC structs and arrays, exceptions (`exnref`), etc. So this list is definitely incomplete. 

Probably the best thing to do is to have a page somewhere on the modern Wasm type system that we can reference whenever we need to talk generally about value types, reference types, etc.

Reviewer: Ah, I think I see the confusion - while core WebAssembly now offers many more types, the JS API still only allows the ones listed here.

Author: Eventually, we will want to add some kind of a guide page that talks about the type system and explains all this stuff.

I can also see us adding more types to this list as we document other missing features, like the ones you've mentioned above.

I suppose I could add them now, so the list is not incomplete. What is the easiest way for me to find an exhaustive list? I had a look in the spec, but it is not that simple to find.

Reviewer: The specific spec production is a [value type](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/types.html#value-types), which is either a [number type](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/types.html#syntax-numtype) (i32, i64, f32, f64), [vector type](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/types.html#vector-types) (v128), or [reference type](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/types.html#syntax-reftype). Reference types in turn are a [heap type](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/types.html#syntax-heaptype) plus a flag indicating whether the reference is nullable or not. And finally, the list of heap types is:

- a reference to a previously-defined type
- any, eq, i31, struct, array, none
- func, nofunc
- exn, noexn
- extern, noextern

So for example, the following types would all be valid for globals (with or without `mut`)

- `i32`
- `(ref null struct)` (or the equivalent shorthand `structref`), meaning the global can store any GC struct value or null
- `(ref struct)`, meaning the global can store any GC struct value but _not_ null
- `(ref null func)` (or the equivalent shorthand `funcref`), meaning a reference to any wasm function or null
- etc.

The list is long enough that I find it dubious to list them all here. Generally speaking, value types are any value that can be pushed or popped to the wasm value stack for use in a function. This therefore includes things like numbers and references, but excludes things like function types (which are a (params, results) pair), or memory types (the min/max size, i32 vs. i64 pointers, etc.)

Author: Right, so this is a bit more complex than I first thought. For now, I've just added a line of examples rather than trying to be exhaustive:

- Other reference types such as structs (for example, `structref`), exceptions (for example, `exnref`), `i31` (`i31ref`), etc.

- `initial_value`

>   - : The initializer for the new global. Its value must be a literal or a [`global.get`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.get) of another global, and its type must be the same as the declared [`type`](#type).

Reviewer: This is actually not quite true! You can have a full "constant expression" here, meaning a normal sequence of instructions like you'd see in any function, but restricted to the few instructions listed here: https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/valid/instructions.html#valid-constant

This allows you to do thing like e.g. do two `global.get`s and add them together, which can be useful for some more advanced linking and loading use cases, or just to construct a GC struct or array (which requires instructions for the values that will be stored inside).

Author: OK. I've changed the `initial_value` definition to include the following bulleted list:

- A literal value.
- A [`global.get`](#) of another global.
- An expression such as an addition, division, or multiplication, an array declaration, or a struct declaration.

I'm not sure how useful that is, but I'm also not sure that this is the right place to exhaustively define what a constant expression is, and all the things it can contain. So I'm just being kinda vague for now.

Reviewer: I think being vague here is totally fine. What you have now is mostly good, except for the following:

- Division is weirdly not allowed; the only operations that can be done at constant time are `t.add`, `t.sub`, and `t.mul`, and only where `t` is `i32` or `i64`. It's strange, but it's just because nobody actually has a use case for anything else.
- When I hear "array declaration" it makes me think of defining a new array type, not allocating a new array.

I think I personally would consider replacing the entire third bullet with "any other [constant expression](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/syntax/instructions.html#syntax-instr-array)". In the future I think it would be worth adding proper docs about constant expressions to MDN, since they occur in several places in the module: global initializers, table initializers, data and element segment offsets.

Author: OK, I've done that for now.

## Description

The WebAssembly `global` definition enables globally-scoped variables to be defined inside a Wasm module. Global variables can be:

- Retrieved via [`global.get`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.get) and used from anywhere inside the module.
- Mutated via [`global.set`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.set), provided the [`mut`](#mut) flag was included when the global was first initialized. Attempting to mutate a non-mutable variable results in a validation error.

> - Exported to pass them into JavaScript, provided the global in question does not contain a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) (SIMD) type.

Reviewer: To be precise, I believe it's completely fine to instantiate a module that has an exported v128 global, but attempting to read that global's value from JS will be a type error. I have not tried this, though, so maybe I'm wrong, but it would just surprise me.

Also, v128 is not the only type with this restriction; [exnref also applies](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/js-api/#dom-global-global). I'm not sure it's worth specifying this restriction here, assuming the module can still be instantiated from JS.

Author: OK. I've taken this info out of the bullet, and moved it to a note below the bullet:

> [!NOTE]
> If a global contains a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) (SIMD) type, you can export it, but attempting to read the global's value via JavaScript will result in a `TypeError`.

Reviewer: I just tested this and indeed I was correct:

```js
const m = new WebAssembly.Module(wasmTextToBinary(`(module
  (global (export "g") (mut v128) (v128.const i64x2 0 0))
)`));
const { g } = new WebAssembly.Instance(m).exports;

console.log("The global itself:", g);
console.log("The global's value:", g.value);
```
```
$ js global-v128.js 
The global itself: [object WebAssembly.Global]
global-v128.js:7:36 TypeError: cannot pass value to or from JS
Stack:
  @global-v128.js:7:36
```

So I think the note is great. The one caveat is that, as I mentioned, globals of type `(ref null exn)` and friends will also trigger the same case, but exnref is quite obscure and probably doesn't need to be called out here.

Author: I think this is still worth mentioning. I've updated the note to

> [!NOTE]
> If a global contains a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) (SIMD) or exception (`exnref`) type, you can export it, but attempting to read the global's value via JavaScript will result in a `TypeError`.

  For example:

  ```wat
  (global $my_global (mut i32) (i32.const 0))
  (export "my_global" (global $my_global))
  ```

### Creating globals from JavaScript

> It is also possible to create a Wasm global from within the JavaScript host using the {{jsxref("WebAssembly.Global.Global", "WebAssembly.Global()")}} constructor then import it into the module.

Reviewer: Typo: "then importing it into the module"

Author: Fixed; ta.

For example:

```js
const myGlobal = new WebAssembly.Global({ value: "i32", mutable: true }, 0);

const { instance } = await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(
  fetch("example.com/module"),
  {
    env: { myGlobal },
  },
);
```

### Sharing globals between modules

> It isn't possible to share a reference to a global initialized inside a Wasm module. If you were to export it and then import it into another module, the second module would get its own separate copy, and the scope wouldn't be shared.

Reviewer: I don't think this is true? You should be able to export a global from one module and import it into another.

Author: OK. I think this might have been ... *cough* ... an AI hallucination.

I have amended the section to say that you can share the state of globals between modules whether they are created inside a module or inside the JS host.

---
title: "global: Wasm definition"
short-title: global
slug: WebAssembly/Reference/Definitions/global
page-type: webassembly-instruction
browser-compat: webassembly.definitions.global
sidebar: webassemblysidebar
---

> The **`global`** definition declares a new global variable.

Reviewer 2: Consider using this pattern. My first thought was WTF is a definition vs an instruction or whatever. To me a definition is like a term in a glossary.

```suggestion
The **`global`** [definition](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Definitions) declares a new global variable.
```

It may also be that the text at the top of that page is not great "This set of pages details the top-level definitions available in Wasm for defining module features such as tables, types, memories, functions, etc."

I.e. This isn't a set of "definitions" in the English sense of a glossary. It is a set of methods for definiting module feature top level feature. I would start that way round in this sentence.

Author: Ah, yes, I used this pattern on the table definition page, but forgot on this page. Updated.

As for the language on the definition landing page, it is a tricky one, as "definition" is definitely as specific Wasm syntax term, which is familiar to those who know. The clash with the expected English language meaning is unfortunate, but not a lot can be done about it, really. I can't really describe them as methods, as they are not methods. They are more like metadata for a module, defining what globals, tables, etc., a method will have.

The spec says "modules collect definitions...": https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/bikeshed/#modules%E2%91%A0

To try and mitigate this a bit, I have changed the landing page language to:

> This set of pages details the top-level module definition features available in Wasm for defining items such as tables, types, memories, functions, etc.

Reviewer 2: Works for me. Thank you.

{{InteractiveExample("Wat Demo: global", "tabbed-taller")}}

```wat interactive-example
(module
  (import "console" "log" (func $log (param i32)))

  ;; Import a global variable from js
  (import "env" "from_js" (global $from_js i32))

  ;; Create a global variable
  (global $from_wasm (mut i32) (i32.const 10))

  (func $main
    ;; Set $from_wasm to a different value
    i32.const 20
    global.set $from_wasm

    ;; Load both global variables onto the stack
    global.get $from_js
    global.get $from_wasm

    i32.add ;; Add up both globals
    call $log ;; Log the result
  )
  (start $main)
)
```

```js interactive-example
const url = "{%wasm-url%}";
const from_js = new WebAssembly.Global({ value: "i32", mutable: false }, 5);
await WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming(fetch(url), {
  console,
  env: { from_js },
});
```

## Syntax

```plain
global identifier type initial_value
```

- `global`
  - : The `global` definition type. Must always be included first.
- `identifier` {{optional_inline}}
  - : An identifying name for the global. This must begin with a `$` symbol, for example `$my_global`.
- `type`

>   - : The type of global to create. This can consist of one or two items:

Reviewer 2: "one OR two items"? BTW, below in the example you have:

```
(global $my_global (mut i32) (i32.const 0))
```

So I think you mean

```suggestion
  - : The type of global to create. This consists of a `data_type`, optionally preceded by the `mut` keyword:
```

Author: Good, good.

    - `mut` {{optional_inline}}
      - : The `mut` flag. If included, the global is mutable — it can be set to a different value after initialization via the [`global.set`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.set) instruction.
    - `data_type`
      - : The data type of the global. This can be one of the following:
        - `i32`
        - `i64`
        - `f32`
        - `f64`
        - [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128)
        - [`funcref`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/funcref)
        - [`externref`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/externref)
        - Other reference types such as structs (for example, `structref`), exceptions (for example, `exnref`), `i31` (`i31ref`), etc.
- `initial_value`
  - : The initializer for the new global. Its value can be:
    - A literal value.
    - A [`global.get`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Variables/global.get) of another global.

>     - Any other [constant expression](https://webassembly.github.io/spec/core/valid/instructions.html#valid-constant).

Reviewer 2: Can we capture that this must have the type and value? `(i32.const 0)`

Author: Wasm literal values always include a type and a value. I've updated the first bullet to reflect this:

> - A literal value, for example `i32.const 0`.
